Project Gutenberg's Cupid's Cyclopedia, by Oliver Herford and John Cecil Clay

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Cupid's Cyclopedia

Author: Oliver Herford
        John Cecil Clay

Release Date: December 30, 2017 [EBook #56269]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CUPID'S CYCLOPEDIA ***




Produced by David Edwards and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)










CUPID’S CYCLOPEDIA

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




                                 CUPID’S
                               CYCLOPEDIA

                       Compiled _for_ Daniel Cupid
                           _by_ Oliver Herford
                          _and_ John Cecil Clay

                             [Illustration]

                         Charles Scribner’s Sons
                        _New York_ : : : : : 1910

       [Illustration: COPYRIGHT, 1910 BY CHARLES SCRIBNER’S SONS]




                                To _YOU_

                         And all whom _YOU_ love
                         And all who love _YOU_




[Illustration: A WORD TO THE WISE

CONTINUE]




Authors’ Note


_It has long been the belief of the authors that Love-making should be
included in the regular curriculum of our schools. It seems to us the
most important branch of co-education._

_How few of us know how to make love properly, and how very few, after
making it, know how to keep it!_

_So much depends upon the kind of love which is made. There are no
artificial methods of preserving love, but the best kind will keep
forever. Few beginners know how to make the lasting kind, and many, even,
of those with vast experience are still quite clumsy. The only way is to
keep at it._

_We hope that this book will fill a long-felt want. Surely of all
long-felt wants the want of love seems longest._

_It is for the earnest student of True Love that we have compiled this
cyclopedia._

[Illustration: O. Herford

John Cecil Clay]




A


[Illustration: A], the first letter, placed by Cupid at the head of his
Alphabet, because it stands for Amour, Ardor, Art, Affinity, Affection,
Adoration, Affability, Angel, etc.; also A is the easiest word to spell,
with the exception of I.

The origin of the form of our capital letter A is supposed to have
been an Egyptian symbol (see illustration) representing two people
engaged in the ancient pastime called Kyssin, which survives even at the
present day. A, by many supposed to be the oldest of the alphabet and
constituting, as it does, the initial of Adam’s name, was doubtless the
only letter in existence at the time Adam learned to write.

[Illustration]

The words Ark, Antediluvian, Ancestry, Archæology, and Antiquity all
support the above theory.

Girls like Adelaide, Agatha, Agnes, Alice, Althea, Amanda, Amy, Angelina,
and Arabella, whose initials fall in this letter will be Attractive,
Amiable, Artless, and in the opposite sex most attracted by those of
Ardent, Ambitious, and Affable disposition.

    ABSENCE. The sixth sense, arrived at by the exclusion of the
    other five. A powerful stimulant to love. See _longing_. When
    combined with _distance_ lends enchantment to the other five
    senses.

    ADAMANT, _m._ A very hard word. See _father_.

    ADMIRATION. From _admi_, the Persian word meaning _love_, and
    _ration_, food; _love-food_ or _food of love_.

    AFFINITY, _f._ Ad, at; finis, boundary; at the boundary. The
    one one meets around the corner.

    ALIMONY. The fine for speeding in the joy-ride of Matrimony.

    ALTAR. The forge where hearts are fused. From the word
    _halter_, to hitch.

    AMOUNT. A foreign measure of Love.

    ANCHOR. The symbol of Hope. See English word _hanker_, to long
    for.

    ANGEL. See HER.

    APPENDIX. See last page.

    ARM. The arm is a muscular string connecting the hand with
    the shoulder. A man can give his arm without giving his hand.
    Coat-of-Arms (Cupid’s), Heart-shaped shield—Gules, pierced by
    an Arrow—Argent. Crest, on an olive branch, a Dove _Proper_
    ringed d’or, flappant.

    [Illustration]

    ASHES. Fashionable Lenten head-dress. Especially effective when
    combined with sackcloth.

    AVOWAL. A show-down in the Game of Love.

[Illustration]




[Illustration: THE BATHING GIRL

FOUND ALONG THE SEASHORE IN GREAT NUMBERS DURING THE SUMMER MONTHS. THEY
CAN HARDLY BE CALLED AQUATIC, AS THEY RARELY GO INTO THE WATER MORE THAN
ENOUGH TO WET THE FEET. WITH THEIR BEAUTIFULLY TANNED ARMS AND NECKS AND
THEIR SHAPELY, GRACEFUL LEGS THEY PRESENT A REFRESHING PICTURE TO THE
TIRED-EYED, OFFICE-FAGGED WEEK-ENDER]




B


[Illustration: B] is supposed to take its shape from the popular and
industrious insect known as the Bee (see illustration). Others claim
that its form is copied from the curves of Cupid’s Bow. In either case
its chief characteristic is Busy-ness.

B is a letter beloved of all. Bashful, Bouncing, Beautiful, and Bonny,
all of which pleasing attributes are the natural inheritance of the girls
to whose lot the initial B shall fall. See Betty, Bella, Bertha, Bridget,
and Belinda.

The most congenial qualities of the opposite sex will be Bravery, Brawn,
Briskness, and Brains.

[Illustration]

    BABY. A small thing somewhat resembling a cupid without wings.

    BACHELOR, _n._ An immune.

    BALCONY. Cupid’s fire escape.

    BEAUTY, _f._ An affection of the skin; taking but not
    contagious. Most popular American export.

    BEST. Best girl—see Her.

    BILL. See coo.

    BIRD. See hat.

    BLUSH. A weakness of youth and an accomplishment of experience.
    The pink of impropriety.

    BOND. There are two kinds. The United States bonds and Cupid’s
    bonds of the united state.

    BRAVERY. A quality looked for in man, found in woman. The
    personal adornment of a woman and the mental adornment of a
    man.

    BREACH, Breach of promise suit. A suit made to fit the devil,
    but sometimes worn by Cupid.

    BREAK, to break hearts. Popular pastime of the American girl.

    BRUTE, _n._ A husband.




C


[Illustration: C] is the curliest of all the letters. It takes its shape
from the first golden curl, given as a Love Token by Cupid to Psyche,
when he found her again, after their first quarrel, thus originating the
Society of Psychical Research and the Engagement Ring.

C, being the initial of Cupid, has many of his charming graces, being
Careless, Coquettish, Capricious, Clandestine, Clinging, and Curious.

These charms will also be found in the maids who follow the curly initial
C.

Among the C girls are the following: Chloe, Clorinda, Clarice, Clara,
Clementine, Catherine, Constance, Cynthia, and Carol.

[Illustration]

The attractive qualities of their affinities are Candor, Coolness,
Cynicism, Cleverness, and Cash.

    CAKE, Wedding Cake. A saccharine monument to the memory of Love.

    CARE. The Mother of Thrift and the Child of Extravagance. If
    you do not take it before marriage it will overtake you after.

    CARESS. A sort of dope; very enjoyable.

    CASH. A sort of window fastener to keep Love from flying out.

    CAD, _m._ The other man.

    CAT, _f._ The other woman.

    CHAIR. A small ingeniously constructed seat for two people.
    Called after Cheops, the inventor. The first chair was
    presented to Cassiopeia and now appears in the constellation of
    that name.

    CHEESE. Part of Cupid’s Menu (Bread and Cheese and Kisses).

    CLOCK. A paradoxical chaperon who is least in the way when it
    doesn’t go.

    COMPANY. 2.

    CONSENT. See Papa.

    COO. See bill.

    COURTSHIP. A picturesque gateway to a commonplace estate.

    CROWD. 3.

    CURE, of Love. Marriage.

    CURIOSITY. The taper which lights the flame of Love.

    CURL, _f._ A man trap. _v._ to curl. The dog curls up to sleep,
    the cat curls up to sleep, even my lady curls up to sleep.

    CYNIC. One who has been stung.




D


[Illustration: D] The letter D dates from about 967 B. C.

Hipopotamia, one of Solomon’s many wives, having been blessed with no
children, had a little pet animal, presumably much like the modern _lap
dog_, of which she was very fond and was forever exclaiming of it, “Isn’t
it Dear!” or “Isn’t it a Darling!” Solomon would invariably reply, “No,
Dog gone it!” and sometimes even, “No, D—— it!” Then Hipopotamia would
smile, disclosing two very lovely Dimples.

[Illustration]

Realizing the usefulness of such words, Solomon created the letter D,
in order to be able to spell them. In the hieroglyphics of the times
it was written as this fragment will show, the form being taken from
Hipopotamia’s little pet dog, Hydrophobia.

D has turned out to be one of the most useful letters in Cupid’s
Alphabet, beginning as it does, Dearie, Ducky, Dreams, Delight,
Determination, and Desire. But it has an unhappy side in Don’t,
Disappointment, and Despair.

The girls under this letter are all Darlings. See any one of them.

    DARLING. From Dearling, a little Dear—sometimes excessively
    dear.

    DEAR. Beloved—also expensive.

    DAWN. A term for early morning, used by people who don’t have
    to get up.

    DEFECTS. What a woman loves a man for.

    DELUSION. Hope’s dressmaker.

    DESIRE. Love’s partner.

    DIMPLE, _f._ A pitfall in a garden of Blush Roses.

    DOGGEREL. Rhyme without reason, generally written by puppies.

    DOUGH. That which is kneaded. A slang word for money.

    DOVE. A tender fowl, popular both in poetry and cookery books.
    When too old to roast or broil, may be served up in verse as
    the emblem of conjugal love.

    DREAM. _Fem._ Term used by a woman describing a hat.

    _Mas._ Term describing the woman used by the man who is
    destined to buy the hat.

    DUEL. The highest compliment two men can pay one woman.

    DUTY. A millstone sometimes mistaken by Cupid for a heart. What
    we expect in others.




[Illustration: THE TYPIST]




E


[Illustration: E] The letter E takes its shape from the Elephant, in
whose symbolical anatomy it plays the most important part.

It is the belief of scientists that no animal has been responsible for
more exclamations expressive of amazement than the Elephant, the presence
of “E” in E jaculation, E xtraordinary, E gad, E normous, is directly
traceable to the close relation of the letter to that popular pachyderm.

[Illustration]

The girls under E, for instance, Edith, Eleanor, Elizabeth, Elsie, Emily,
Emma, Esther, Eunice, Evangeline, and Evelina, are distinguished for
Ease, Elegance, Excitability, and Economy, and will be most attracted in
the opposite sex by Extravagance, Eccentricity, and Earlyrising.

    ESCAPE. Divorce.

    ETERNITY. “I’ll be down in a minute.”

    EVIL. A wile of the devil.

    “EVER AND FOR EVER.” The devil of a while.

    EXCUSE. Self accusation.

    EXPERIENCE. An expensive tutor.

    EYEBROW. A mustache worn over the eye. An incentive to sonnets.




F


[Illustration: F] The form of the letter F was first discovered on an
ancient fragment of pottery by a German archæologist, in the shape of
a sandal on what is supposed to be the foot of Achilles. As will be seen
in the accompanying cut the heel of the sandal and the part covering what
is known as the “tendon of Achilles” is peculiarly designed for the
protection of that part of the foot which was the only vulnerable spot
in Achilles’s foot. This can at best be accepted only as an ingenious
conjecture.

[Illustration]

F girls will be Frank, Fragile, and Fastidious, and those named Fanny,
Felicia, Flora, Fidelia, Florence, Frances, or Flo will find their
affinities in those of the opposite sex who are Fearless, Fickle, and
Fantastic.

    FAINTING. (Obsolete.) A feminine manœuvre.

    FASHION. _Fem._ The sum of all the virtues.

    [Illustration: FIG 1]

    FIG, Fig Leaf. A Fall Fashion of a false modiste. See Fig. 1.

    FIRST. First Love. An appetiser. First Kiss. Much has
    been written about the exquisite joy of this, still it is
    unsatisfying, hence the Second, the Third, etc., _ad lib._

    FLIRTATION. A way for two people, who are not married to each
    other, to pass the time. As a matter of fact a flirtation isn’t
    anything, it’s a thing to do and is really easier to do than to
    describe. There are many sorts of Flirtation. The Every-day
    or Sidewalk Flirtation is the commonest kind. Other very
    popular forms are the Eye, the Eyebrow, the Fan, the Glove, the
    Handkerchief, and the Foot Flirtation.

    A natural attribute to woman, but an easily acquired
    accomplishment in man.

    FOREVER. Love’s promissory note (subject to discount).




G


[Illustration: G] The present form of the letter G is derived from the
ancient Babylonian symbol _Gee_. The letter in its present shape is
composed of only half of the Babylonian symbol, which is properly written
GG or Gee Gee (_see cut_).

When we consider that without this letter there could be no girls in the
world, we should be thankful for G; in fact _we_ are in favor of its
being made the National Thanksgiving Letter.

[Illustration]

Gertrude, Georgiana, Grace, and all the girls of this letter will be
Glorious with their Generosity, Gentleness, Grace, and Gaiety, and cannot
be won by Gold or Gems. He who would win one of these must be Guileless
and Go-ahead.

    GARTER. (See knee.) A species of serpent.

    GAS, Gas-light. A light often too weak for one and generally
    too strong for two. “The fainter the gas the braver the
    beau.”—_Shakespeare._

    GIRL. The beginning of trouble. An apple blossom in the Garden
    of Love.

    GOOSEBERRY. An unbidden fruit.

    GOSSIP. Nothing to speak of.

    GRASS WIDOW. A Grass Widow is a Widow which makes hay.




[Illustration: TYPE FOUND PRETTY MUCH ALL OVER NORTH AMERICA

NOTE THE HEAD-DRESS OR WAR-BONNET OF FEATHERS. THEY HAVE ALSO VARIOUS
COLORED SUBSTANCES KNOWN AS “WAR-PAINT,” WHICH THEY SMEAR ON THEIR FACES,
GIVING A GHASTLY AND UNNATURAL APPEARANCE. THIS PRACTICE IS QUITE COMMON.
SOME OF THIS TYPE, HOWEVER, ARE MOST ATTRACTIVE, ESPECIALLY THOSE FOUND
IN THE UN-UNITED STATE]




H


[Illustration: H], the eighth letter of Cupid’s Alphabet, takes its form
from the Hittite symbol meaning, “An Heir has been born to his House.” The
symbol as shown in the cut represents two Hittite gentlemen shaking hands.
The gladder looking one is the proud father, and is being congratulated
upon the birth of his first son. (Girls did not count for so much then
as now.) In later symbolic writing this symbol came to stand for a
pleasant or good-natured greeting, as shown in such words as, Howdhy
(Hittite), How (North American Indian), Howdedo (New England), Hello
(Telephonic), and Hail.

[Illustration]

It would be hard to reckon the immense amount of good this letter has
done, for without Hell and Headache how many of us would be good? And O
the joys of life! For without H where would Happiness and the Honeymoon
be? And where Heart, Hope, Health, and Harmony?

Girls under this sign will be Handsome, Honest, and Home-loving, but
those named Helen, Harriet, Henrietta, and Hannah seem to be easily
Hypnotized by Hollow, Hypocritical Humbugs of the opposite sex.

_Hooray!_

    HAPPINESS. The mainspring of the good-time piece.

    HEAVEN. “All in her eye.”

    HEART. The ticker in the Bourse of Love.

    HEARTICULTURE. See Cupid’s Almanac.

    HELL! An expression of petulance.

    HESITATION. The thief of good times.

    HONESTY. A bunker in the game of Love.

    HONEYMOON. The sugar on the bread of matrimony.

    HOPE. “… the child of Care,
    And pretty sister of Despair.”




I


[Illustration: I] The letter I spells by itself the most popular word in
our language, though, under Cupid’s spell, the word “U” is more thought
of, “You and I” being often the most happy of Cupid’s combinations. I is
the most Attenuated letter of the Alphabet.

By some the letter I is supposed to have possessed originally a
well-rounded and ornate figure, having been worn to its present
thread-like shape by constant use in speech and writing.

When not acting in its popular capacity of First Personal Pronoun, I is
anything but popular as a letter, standing as it does for Indifference,
Irksomeness, Insignificance, Industry, and other uncongenial things.

[Illustration]

I has a leaning to the cold and classic in its choice of females, some
of its favorites being, Iphigenia, Irene, Imogen, Ivias, and Iolanthe.
To these ladies the most appealing masculine qualities will be Irony,
Idleness, Independence, and Impecuniosity.

    I. The most popular letter in the alphabet.

    IF. The drawbridge to the Castle of Hope.

    ILLUSION. Love’s tailor and Art’s servant.

    INK. The stuff that Bills, Books, and Billet-doux are made of.

    INNOCENCE. A moral vacuum.




J


[Illustration: J], we are confident, takes its shape from one of Venus’s
doves. We don’t know which one, but we think it is the Dove of Peace or
possibly the Turtle Dove; we are quite sure it is not from the Ring Dove.
To strengthen our theory we present herewith a cut of a fragment of a
loving cup presented to Cupid at a dinner given in his honor by the
Ancient and Honorable Society of Psychic Research, just when we cannot
tell, for unfortunately the date is only left in part, but it must have
been long, long ago when Love was very young.

[Illustration]

There has been much controversy over this fragment, some claiming it to
represent a Jay Bird, others a Duck, some an Owl because of the moon in
its eye, but _we_ are sure it’s a _love of a Dove_! Why? Because a Jay
Bird is blue, a Duck has webbed feet, and an Owl a hooked bill.

It is a jolly letter and has been the beginning of much Joy and foolish
Jealousy. The worst thing it ever did was when it started the word Jilt.

The men most attractive to such Jolly girls as Jane, Julia, Josephine,
Jemima, Juliet, and Juliana are those of Just but Jovial disposition.

    JEALOUSY. Cupid’s shadow.

    JEST. See life.

        “Life is a jest
          And all things show it;
        I thought so once—
          But now I know it.”

                            —_Gay’s Epitaph._

    JILT. An angel unawares. Originally _Jolt_, _i. e._, a jolt on
    the path of True Love which never runs smooth. Schopenhauer in
    his great work on Dutch Treats spells it _chilt_, and gives it
    as an obsolete past tense of the verb _to chill_.

    JOY. The Libretto of Laughter.

    JUNE. The time to make hay.

[Illustration]




K


[Illustration: K] The form of the letter K we trace to the Assyrian
Cherubis Figure of Karubi, “the mighty,” who stood at the Gateway of
Earthly Happiness and guarded the Pathway of True Love. It is strange
that these composite boy-bird figures were also known as Shedi. The
nearest word we have to which is the Hebrew _shedim_ (devils).
Unquestionably it is from the word Karubi that we get our word Kubid
or Cupid.

[Illustration]

The girls under this sign are usually named Katherine (meaning Pure) or
one of its diminutives—Kitty or Kate. They are always Kind and extremely
Kissable, while the men are apt to be Keen, Knowledge-seeking, and
Knightly.

    KHEF. (Pronounced _keff_.) Arabic slang, to loaf happily, to
    invite one’s soul. The action of doing nothing.

    KINDNESS. The larger half of the other boy’s apple.

    KING. The card that takes the Queen.

    KISMATE. A young lady one is on kissing terms with.

    KISMET. Originally _kiss met_, meaning Good Luck.

    KISS. A course of procedure, cunningly devised, for the mutual
    stoppage of speech at a moment when words are superfluous.

    KISSING. See under mustache. A pastime of the unmarried.

    KNEE. An adjustable, animated settee designed for the use of
    ladies.

    KNOWLEDGE. Dame Nature’s lover.

    KNOT. An entanglement.

[Illustration: TRUE LOVER’S KNOT

HALF HITCH OR ENGAGEMENT KNOT

MARRIAGE OR SLIP NOT]




[Illustration: THE WESTERN TYPE]




L


[Illustration: L]ong, long ago, the God of Love was supposed to dwell in
the Moon and was called Lameck (the Moon God). From the sometimes
startling effect moonlight had upon the sentimental, it was believed that
the moon-beams were the arrows of the God of Love (Cupid’s Arrows). Hence
this symbol (see cut) came to mean affection, and from it came the letter
L, ranking very high in Cupid’s Alphabet, beginning, as it does, the most
important word in the history of the world, Love. This symbol was usually
found, as in Cupid’s Alphabet, following the symbol of Kubid, and meaning
that Love follows in the path of Cupid.

[Illustration]

The neo-Babylonian characters are the most sentimental ever known, as
they are made up almost entirely of arrangements of this symbol slightly
conventionalized.

Lois, Laura, Leonora, Lucy, Lydia, Lucretia, Louise, and Lucinda, the
women under this sign, are Languid, Luscious, Lackadaisical, and Loving;
while the men are usually named Lionel and are Light-hearted, and Lazy.

NOTE:—It is interesting to note the Chinese use of the same symbol
surrounded by tears [Illustration], pronounced sim, meaning Heart.

    LAP. A pillow. See Gray.

        “Here rests his head upon the lap of earth.”

    LIPS. The two edges or borders of the mouth; the two fleshy or
    muscular parts composing the opening of the mouth. Generally
    used for kissing, cussing, and conversation.

    LONELINESS. An instigation. The married man’s meat, the single
    man’s poison.

    LOTTERY. From _lot_, state; _awry_, askew. A cynical definition
    of marriage.

    LOVE. A transitory derangement of all the five senses. The
    chemistry of attraction.

    LURE. Cupid’s signposts, not always safe to follow. They may be
    found in many and fantastic shapes, such as a bow of ribbon,
    a stray ringlet, a side-long glance, a sigh, or a breath of
    heliotrope.




M


[Illustration: M] is so ancient that no one really knows where it came
from. However, because of the fragment of the jar shown here (see cut),
found just outside the Garden of Eden and representing two outsiders
bargaining, the origin of this letter has been credited to the Hebrews,
and is interesting in showing the politeness of these early people.
Money, Moses, and Mercantile all strengthen this theory.

[Illustration]

Girls of this letter will be Modest and will have Merry and Magnetic
dispositions, and will be most happy when married to Masterful, Manly men
of Means.

The one thing to mar this letter is its connection with the word _Mitten_.

    MARRIAGE. The conventional ending of a love affair. A lonesome
    state.

    MEMORY. A thing to forget with.

    MIRROR (her mirror). Cupid’s cook stove.

    MISERY. Lover of Company.

    MODESTY. Conscious purity.

    MOLE. The exception that proves the rule.

    MONEY. See Uncle.

    MONOGAMY. Sometimes spelling _monotony_.

    MOON. A planetary old maid who busies herself about other
    people’s love affairs and the recipient of love confidences.

    MRS. The O. K. of respectability.

    MUSTACHE. As Kipling says: “Kissing a man without a mustache is
    like eating an egg without salt.” (?) The question was recently
    put before the Ten Million subscribers of _The Perfectlady’s
    Home Journal_, every one of whom, without a single exception,
    replied that she did not know—never having eaten an egg without
    salt.

    A MASCULINE NOTE:—If SHE is an M girl you will be lucky if HER
    name is Malinda or Miriam or Mabel or Miranda or Melicent or
    Maud or Mehetabel or Magdalene or Maria or Minerva or Marion or
    Minna or Margaret or Matilda or Marcia or Marianne or Melissa
    or Martha or Mary.




[Illustration: TYPE FOUND AT FIFTH AVENUE AND 34th STREET ABOUT 4
O’CLOCK]




N


[Illustration: N] is the sign of the negative, and is found first in the
form of an eel on an ancient Egyptian tablet from a lady refusing her
hand in marriage and slipping out of it in a nice and graceful manner.
Evidently the symbol of polite refusal.

N girls, like Nora and Nancy and Nell will be Nice and Naïve and
sometimes Naughty. It is not a popular letter with men because of its
association with Nervous, No, Never, and Numb.

[Illustration]

    NATURE. Dame Nature. The mistress of the House of Life, in
    which Love is ever the favored guest.

    NEGLECT. A breakfast food of Love.

    NEVER! A feminine sign of yielding.

    NO. Feminine for _Yes_.

    NOTHING. The boundaries of the Universe and of Love.

    NUMBER. (Cupid’s Lucky Number) 2.




O


[Illustration: O] has its origin in the Wedding Ring and is the symbol of
Eternity. It seems to have been used by all the peoples of the Earth, as
we find it in the Babylonian, Archaic, Old Aramæan, Cypriote, and
practically in all writings of all times.

[Illustration]

From its very shape it means happiness and content.

O girls will be Orderly, and in olden times were fond of Osculation. The
men are often Odd, Ostentatious, and Overbearing.

    OCEANS. A minute measure of Love.

    OH! An exclamation meaning “this is so sudden.”

    ONIONS. Should never be eaten alone.

    OPPORTUNITY. An invitation of Fate.

    OSCULATION. A game of chance.

    OWN. To possess. From _onus_, a burden.

[Illustration]




P


[Illustration: P] in its primitive form was the symbol of pairing, being,
as the cut shows, a combination of U and I. The sort of thing a bashful
lover would carve on a tree or stone or scratch in the sand when taking
a walk with his adored one.

It seems natural that it should stand for Perfume, Poetry, Pastime,
Pleasure, Passion, Panacea, Paradise, and Peace.

In Cupid’s Alphabet, to prevent the slightest breath of scandal, it is
always placed after the symbol of the wedding ring.

[Illustration]

The girls who come within the pale of this letter (see Phyllis, Prudence,
Pearl, Penelope, Pauline, Philippa, Phœbe, or Priscilla), will be Petite
and Pretty and will have perfect Poise. While the men will be Polite and
Polished, great Posers and Poker Players, but Pliable in the hands of
woman.

    PASSION. The father of Tenderness.

    PURITY. The mother of Tenderness. Unconscious modesty. (See
    Modesty.)

    PAST. Something to be forgotten.

    PATIENCE. The tip Time gives to the waiter.

    PITY. Love’s half brother.

    PLEASURE. True Love’s shadow.

    PRUDENCE. “Said Love: ‘How strange we never met before;
      But now we’ve met, I hope we’ll meet no more!’”




Q


[Illustration: Q], as shown by this ancient bit of sculpture, in its
original hieroglyphical form represented a lover’s quarrel, and, from
the cast of features, presumably an Amorite. This proves it of very
ancient origin, as in the early times the Amorites were the dominant
race of Syria and Canaan, which are named on the oldest Babylonian
monuments “the land of the Amorites.” (See map of Amouria.) There are
plenty of Amourites in the world to-day, but they show not the slightest
desire to congregate, but, quite to the contrary, can be found wandering
off in pairs at the slightest pretext.

[Illustration]

Such words as Quibble, Quirk, Quiz, Quip, and Querulous seem to
strengthen the unpleasant features of this letter.

Fortunately there are no Q girls; they would be very Queer if there were.

    QUESTION. Woman.

[Illustration: TYPE (A WIDOW) FOUND THE WORLD OVER VERY DANGEROUS TO MAN]




R


[Illustration: R] This form we find first used as the symbol on the seal
of Rabsaris, chief of the eunuchs, in the reign of Sennacherib, King of
Assyria. The symbol evidently represents Rabsaris at his daily task of
watching the ladies of the Royal Harem to see that they did not indulge
too freely in sweetmeats. Some wit of the day twisted _Rabsaris_ into
_Rabari_, in Assyrian, to stretch, to Rubber, and so a new symbol in the
writing of the times was born and _we_ have the letter R.

[Illustration]

Not the most cheerful letter in Cupid’s Alphabet, bringing with it as it
does, Refusal, Regret, Remorse, Revenge, “Please Remit,” and that great
hindrance to Lovers, Reason.

Girls under this sign combine the sweetness of the Rose with the fire and
depth of the Ruby, and will be most attracted to those in the opposite
sex of Reckless and Roving disposition.

    RELIGION. “In the religion of Love the courtesan is a heretic;
    but the nun is an atheist.”—_Richard Garnett._

    RIBBON. A rope in disguise.

    RICE. The confetti of matrimony.

    RING. Symbol of slavery.

    ROMANCE. _Once_ upon a time. Seldom twice.

    ROSE. The hardest working flower in Love’s Garden.

    RUFFLE. A frill on the outskirts of good form.

    RULE, Golden Rule. “Do unto others,” etc. Canonical extenuation
    of Osculation.




S


[Illustration: S] The story of S is Sadness.

_Monday_ in the Garden and a lovely day. Just enough air stirring to
rustle the leaves soothingly.

_Tuesday_, another such day.

_Wednesday_, if anything better.

[Illustration]

_Thursday_, a wonderful day, languorous with the perfume of flowers. The
birds never sang so sweetly, the butterflies never seemed so brilliant.
The little silver brook fell into the lake with so soothing a sound and
the drowsy hum of the bee was like a lullaby. Such a dreamy contentment
seemed to pervade the whole Garden. Like the breath of a rose a caressing
zephyr sighed overhead and creaked ever so little the old signboard
nestled among the leaves. The old signboard with this inscription in
quaint characters, “_Quamdiu se bene gesserit_.” Adam looked up from
where he lolled in the soft grass and smiled as at an old friend. He
stretched and drew a deep breath of content. The day seemed the most
wonderful he had known.

_Friday_, Black Friday they called it afterward, broke clear and bright,
but on the horizon great piles of black cloud and far off the ominous
muttering of thunder. All nature seemed nervous and a-tremble. The breeze
was fitful and petulant and the hush of some impending evil hung over the
Garden. The old signboard creaked sharply. Poor Adam! (Poor Us!!!) There
confronting him was this word in fresh bright paint,

“SKYDDU”

(See Note)

That night it rained. Oh, how it rained!

Because this symbol (see cut), pronounced _es_ like the hiss of a
serpent, can be traced back to the day the Adams moved, and which stood
for Sin, Scandal, Shame, Sorrow, Scorn, Satire, Suspicion, Scowl, and
Selfishness, people have been willing to accept Adam’s story, and the
poor old serpent has been made the scapegoat in the whole affair.

We have gone very carefully into this matter, and we find that Adam was a
lazy poet and dreamer and was put out of Eden for not paying his rent.

The girls under S will be Stylish, Sentimental, Sincere, and Simple in
their tastes, while the men will be Silver-tongued and Smooth.

NOTE:—This quaint form of Dispossess Notice we find used all through the
Stone and Iron Ages.

    SECRET. A feminine invention for the rapid dissemination of
    news.

    SENSE. The safest fuel for the flame on Love’s Altar.

    SENSITIVENESS. A symptom.

    SENTIMENT. Baedeker to the Land of Love. Tells you what to
    admire.

    SIGH. The rustle of a caged cupid’s wings.

    SILENCE. If silence gives consent, how is it women marry?

    SIN. A matter of opinion. What other people do and we talk
    about.

    SOFA. A receptacle for spoons.

    SPOON. An arrangement for supplying nourishment to the lovesick.

    SUSPICION. A hair of the wrong color.

    SYMPATHY. Love’s sister.




T


[Illustration: T] In Adam’s Autobiography we find, toward the end of
the sojourn in the Garden, this symbol (see cut on this page) often
used and always in this sense, “And being an-hungered we went to the
[Illustration] and ate.” Poetic translators of these lines have been
pleased to call this symbol “The Tree of Life,” and weave a pretty
story around it which fits in with Adam’s folderol about the snake.

[Illustration]

We find, however, much used in the Phœnician hieroglyphics, the most
ancient of all languages, this symbol, [Illustration] the sign of the
usurer or pawn-shop. This unquestionably establishes our version of
this garden story. (_See S._) The variation in Adam’s way of writing
the symbol is due either to that extreme sense of delicacy which would
naturally make him wish to disguise the unpleasant, or to sheer laziness.
He was such a poet.

Girls fortunate enough to come under this letter will be Tender and True,
and will be most attracted by Tall, Talented, Temperate men.

    TELEPHONE. Love’s Telephone Number:—Two Won, O Heaven!!

    TEMPTATION. Woman. Anything forbidden. A challenge. An
    invitation to don’t.

    TENDERNESS. Moonlight.

    THREE. A crowd. Love’s unlucky number.

    TIME. Woman’s worst enemy. A cure-all.

    TRUE LOVE. An old-fashioned sentiment.

    TRUST. A love-preserver on the Ship of Joy.

    TRUTH. A very painful irritant.

    TWO. Company.




[Illustration: TYPE FOUND FRIVOLLING ON THE STAIRS AND IN CONSERVATORIES]




U


[Illustration: U] The old Assyrians, needing men for their many wars, did
not believe in Race Suicide. The law therefore was that all men arriving
at the age of twenty-three and not married must wear a yoke of wood about
the neck until such time as they should wed. (Old bachelors were rare in
Assyria.)

[Illustration]

It is natural then that the yoke should have become the symbol of
bachelorhood. The cut herewith shows this symbol from a tablet from the
Epic of Nimrod. U takes its form from this yoke and its sound from the
Assyrian _UN_, implying negation, as shown in such words as Unit, Until,
Unsafe, Unacceptable, Un-amiable, Unblemished, Unbroken, Uncalled,
Undutiful, Unburied, Unfashionable, Unfeeling, Unfruitful, Unpoetic,
Unmarried, and Unwise.

U girls are usually Unsophisticated and Unaffected, and the men for them
to marry should be Useful, Upright, and Urbane.

    UN. A cantankerous prefix which contradicts every adjective it
    meets.

    UNION. A combination of at least two unmarried states.

    US. The plural of U.




V


[Illustration: V] originated from an early representation of Venus rising
from the sea.

This symbol was used upon the “Ladies’ Entrance” to all the public baths
of the ancients.

In Cupid’s Alphabet, in honor of his mother, this symbol was the last
and stood for Veneration and Virtue, but as customs changed it became
necessary to add the Wedding symbol.

From the fact that Venus had five sweethearts, came the use of this
symbol to denote 5.

[Illustration]

Valeria, Victoria, Virginia, Vivian, Vera, and Violet, the lucky girls
under this sign, will be as sweet as the Verbena and Versed in every art
to make the male heart Vibrate Violently. The men will be Vigorous but
Visionary, and inclined to be fond of the Vine.

    VANITY. Everything.

    VARIETY. Is the spice of Love.

    VICTIM. Bridegroom.




W


[Illustration: W] comes from the very sacred and beautiful symbol of
Wedlock. One cannot realize, unless quite familiar with these ancient
peoples, with what reverence they held this symbol. What poetry and
romance surged through the mind of him who gazed upon it, what fluttering
of heart, what dizziness. Yes, the ancients loved marriage. They adored
it! Some of them were so devoted to it that they did it over and over
again, Solomon for instance. At times the rush was so great that the
clerks in the Office of Record would get behind in their work, and in
their haste would neglect to make the hole in the wedding ring, showing
the Bridegroom’s hand so [Illustration] in the symbol and giving the
opportunity for some one to advance the theory that this symbol did not
mean marriage, but represented the doctor offering a pill to his patient,
meaning sickness. This is absurd!

[Illustration]

W girls will be Wholesome, Winning, and Wise, and will be most happy when
Wedded to men of Wealth.

    WAIST. The equator of Heaven.

    WEB. A net. An entanglement. Doubtless from the German _weib_,
    woman.

    WEDDING. A necessary formality before securing a divorce.

    WIDOW. The most dangerous variety of unmarried female.

    WIFE. A darning attachment for the domestic machine.

    WOMAN. The last but not the least of all created things, an
    afterthought.

[Illustration]




[Illustration: TYPE FOUND IN THE SOUTHERN STATES]




X


[Illustration: X] comes from Cupid’s own mark, used by him in the days
before writing was invented and every one had his or her own particular
mark to sign checks, I. O. U’s, and Love Letters.

We are indebted to the British Museum for allowing us access to their
treasure chambers. There we find this mark on many dainty billet-doux
left upon Psyche’s dressing table by Cupid.

[Illustration]

The symbol, for many centuries, of True Love, and many variations of it
were used; such as:

[Illustration: I am overjoyed.]

[Illustration: I have the blues.]

[Illustration: Fly with me.]

[Illustration: Meet me.]

[Illustration: Meet me by moonlight.]

[Illustration: Let us be married.]

[Illustration: I love you not.]

[Illustration: Do you think you can support a wife?]

[Illustration: I will come to-night.]

[Illustration: I leave town to-morrow.]

[Illustration: Come back, I love you.]

X girls are usually thought of with great tenderness by a man, but they
are sometimes a considerable annoyance, as, for example, Xanthippe.




[Illustration: THE CHORUS GIRL

A MORE OR LESS NOCTURNAL TYPE. LIKE THE ENGLISH SPARROW, NOW VERY
PLENTIFUL ON MANHATTAN ISLAND WHILE AT THE TIME OF THE SETTLING BY THE
DUTCH THEY WERE ABSOLUTELY UNKNOWN TO THE LOCALITY. THE MOST WONDERFUL
TRAIT OF THIS TYPE IS ECONOMY]




Y


[Illustration: Y] A derivative of Wise.

We show here the central figure from a decoration over the entrance to
the Temple of Cupid, and naturally supposed to represent the High Priest
pronouncing the Wedding Blessing. With this before us it is easy to
understand why Y is the parent of such words as Yearn, Yea, Yielding,
Yes, and Yoking.

Another poetic minded archæologist has tried to persuade us to his theory
that the romantic ancients, who were forever giving human form to things,
symbolized in this figure the Waterfall. His theory is without foundation.

[Illustration]

Y girls will be ever Youthful and are rare as Yttrium. They should be
much sought after by You men.

    YES. Cupid’s password.

    YESTERDAY. Regret.

    YOU. Whoever you are.

    YOUTH. The time we wasted. Cupid’s holiday season.




Z


[Illustration: Z] The symbol, shown herewith, from an ancient roller seal
dating back to the earliest days of the Turkish race, shows its owner
worshipping at the shrine of Kupid. (Hence the word Zealot.) The
arrangement of his hair shows him to be a bachelor, so presumably he is
beseeching Cupid’s aid in some amour.

A very similar figure is used in later symbolic writings, supposed to
represent Zeuxis kneeling before one of his own paintings, and stood for
egotism and conceit.

[Illustration]

We also have the same form used so [Illustration] symbolizing the Path of
True Love, originally written [Illustration].




_AMORIA_

(_SEE MAP_)


Amoria is the most ancient and honorable country upon the earth’s
surface and is without question the most intensely populated. It is a
green and fertile country, and the principal occupation of its people
is hearticultural husbandry. The form of government is Home Rule, and
to become a citizen, although born in the country, it is required that
at least one complete journey be made from end to end of the country’s
principal highway. This at first seems an odd requirement, but there is
good reasoning behind it. First, as this great highway, known as the Path
of True Love, in its devious windings touches practically every portion
of the kingdom—the trip is likely to open the traveller’s eyes and teach
him much of the resources and conditions of the country he wishes to call
his own. Second, as the road is rough and in places sometimes seemingly
impassable, the trip will test the determination and stability of the
most hearty.

Turn to the map and we find Amoria bounded on three sides by
Misanthropia, the State of Indifference, and the Sea of Oblivion,
emptying into which the Quarrel River forever pours its flotsam and
jetsam. On the upper side you will see it is bounded by the edge of the
map; this is because it is too cold in that direction to sustain human
life.

[Illustration: _Map of the Ancient and Marvellous Countrie of AMORIA_

SHOWING THE DEVIOUS WINDINGS OF THE PATH OF TRUE LOVE WITH THE MANY
DANGERS AND OBSTACLES THAT BESET THE WAY, AND SHOWING, LIKEWISE, THE
SEVERAL UNFORTUNATE BY-PATHS LIKELY TO MISLEAD THE WAYFARER TO A WRONG
TURNING. WHEREBY MUCH VALUABLE TIME MIGHT BE LOST AND A LARGE DEGREE OF
UNHAPPINESS ENCOUNTERED, BESIDES A RETRACING OF MANY SAD AND FATIGUING
STEPS]

Let us now follow, upon the map, the course of this historic road.

Far up in the corner of the map we find Mount Curiosity—its snow-capped
peaks lost in the soft gray veil of mist that has prevented the
scientists from determining its greatest heights. The ascent of the
mountain is usually made on the side where it comes nearest to the State
of Indifference (see note Y); here a well-worn path, known as the Path
of Least Resistance, takes one by such a gradual and agreeable route
that little or no effort is realized in the climb, and it is usually a
surprise when, just a little below the frost line, one comes suddenly
upon a little plateau high, high, in the heavens. Here the air is
salubrious and the temperature even. The view is so wonderful in the
early Dawn that the most phlegmatic will become enthusiastic. This little
plateau is known as the Plateau Platonic and is quite flat. In spite of
its beauty and charm few travellers are satisfied to rest here long.

In leaving the plateau one must have a care, for there are two paths
quite similar in appearance—one leading up the mountain to nowhere and
loneliness, and the other the commencement of the Path of True Love. The
careful traveller need not mistake the path, for beside the entrance,
at about the height of a man’s heart and nailed to a great Oak, is a
crudely fashioned hand with finger pointing the way. This is called the
Hand of Fate. Alas, too few take the trouble to look for this guide, and
many take the wrong path; while those who, by sheer luck, take the right
one are easily discouraged because of the very uncertain condition of
mind they soon find themselves in. These usually lose heart before going
a great way, or in their careless method of progress take some wrong
turning and come to a swift and bad end.

But we will follow the progress of the traveller who believes in signs.

It is hard to describe those first impressions as one comes swinging down
the mountainside and sees winding far out and across the verdant Valley
of Dreams, dotted here and there with its picturesque castles, the Path
of True Love like a silver thread. It seems so bright and pure, and off
to the right there is such a happy pink glow in the sky, that one usually
finds himself humming some old love song.

Lucky the traveller who puts a clover in his buttonhole, while crossing
the Valley of Dreams, for all too soon the cold winds that sweep
across Lake Indifference, and make the trip around it a perilous and
discouraging one, will be chilling his marrow. He will need both courage
and luck when, rounding the upper end of the lake, he comes upon the
rough and rocky stretch of road running along the edge of a fearful
precipice which overhangs the lake, and is known as the Height of
Indifference; here one false step and all is lost. Past this danger
the road turns from the lake, but the traveller has hardly time to
congratulate himself upon the warmer conditions when he is confronted
by a most disconcerting range of mountains known as the Mountains of
Opposition. If you do not cross the mountains the mountains will double
cross you, so push on and with tact and determination they will be
overcome.

The mountains passed, a smooth bit of road is reached and brighter
weather, that, after the lowering clouds, the storms and many obstacles
met with in the mountains, will likely mislead the traveller into
thinking his troubles over. Light-hearted he will push forward hurriedly,
taking little heed of the fast increasing cold. Fortunately, just at
the edge of the map and just upon the longitude of Respect, the road
takes a sudden sharp turn, but it is almost from bad to worse, for it
plunges the traveller into the Forest of Misunderstanding, a dark and
dismal place that will fill the strongest with misgivings. The only way
is to stick close to the road. This is sometimes hard in the darkness
as there are many by-paths. Travellers once off the correct road have
been known to wander for years without once seeing the sunlight. About
half way through the forest there is a road turning to the right; it
seems the easier way, dipping down, as it does, into a little valley and
across a turbulent little stream, beyond which it disappears from sight
in the tangle of brilliant foliage covering Mount Folly. Unhappy he who
takes this turn, for there is many a slippery stone in the bed of this
stream and the crossing is not a happy one. If one would turn back at the
first slip, but human nature is stubborn and few do; besides there seems
little choice between the dismal forest behind and the lure of Mt. Folly
ahead. Folly lasts but a day, however, and the foliage soon loses its
attractive coloring. The foolish wayfarer then pushing on finds himself
again confronted by the turbulent stream, but easier to cross this time.
A little way further the path ends at what appears to be a refreshing
spring; it is the Spring of Untruth, and he who lies to drink of its
waters will ever be a slave of the drug.

Again as one is nearing the edges of the Black Forest is another road
leading off to the left and to the Spring of Mistrust. Turn not aside nor
drink of this spring; its waters are bitter and this turning but takes
one back into the depths of the dismal forest.

Emerging from the Black Forest of Misunderstanding the road winds across
a fertile and easy-going prairie land, twice crossing the acid waters of
Bicker Brook (see note 23), and crossing the Quarrel River takes its
course along the foot of what, by many, is considered the most beautiful
mountain in Amoria, Mount Unselfishness. The going is easy here, and
when one comes to a little road branching off and running right up the
mountain side he is apt to feel very little inclination to take it.
Nearly every traveller knows by hearsay that this is a short-cut one
should take, but standing at the foot of the mountain, with a broad
smooth road on one hand and this little used difficult mountain path
(it is hardly more than a blazed trail) on the other, it is much to the
traveller’s credit who attempts it at all. Quite a few do, however,
begin the ascent, but almost without exception have not the strength to
continue and turn back to the main highway, only to be shortly plunged
again and again in the cold and caustic waters of the Quarrel River as
the road crosses and recrosses it. There are no bridges here, and many
a poor traveller becoming exhausted in the mad battle with the current
hopelessly loses all self-control and is carried away to be lost in the
Sea of Oblivion. At the river’s mouth is Lost Hope Island; this is really
nothing more than a bar, and superstition has it that there, on stormy
nights when the tide is coming in, congregate those poor lost souls, and
it is claimed, on good authority, that the discords of their mournful
songs can be heard even as far as to the edges of the Desert of Absence.

After these several crossings of the Quarrel River the road again becomes
easy and travel should be a pleasure, but the traveller is weary from
the recent struggle with the river, and is almost thankful for the
flat stretch of road where it first crosses the Desert of Absence.
It were often better if this bit of road were longer, for before the
traveller entirely regains his former vim he is deep in the unhealthy
mists and quicksands of the Slough of Despond, and it is in a very
weakened condition that he commences the second crossing of the Desert of
Absence. In this condition is it strange that one loiter in the Oasis of
Flirtation—the one bright spot in an otherwise dull desert? But an oasis
and a flirtation have their limits, and when one’s thirst is satisfied
one wants to move on. And well this is for the traveller on the Path
of True Love, for only a little and the desert is passed, and the road
leads for many happy miles through the sweetest and most beautiful meadow
land where the warm sunlight, the songs of the birds, and the sweet
odor of new-mown hay repay one for all the hardships of the past, and
so stimulate the traveller that he strikes out upon the third crossing
of the Desert of Absence with a light step and a song in his heart,
and though the trip is longer it seems far shorter than either of the
previous crossings. So happy indeed has he been and, with the soft airs
of the desert making his heart grow fonder, the way seems so easy that
the sudden obstruction of two of the lesser spurs of the Mountains of
Opposition fill him with misgiving, and the valley between them is well
named Blue Valley. (See note 13.)

In such a condition of mind the traveller plunges down the mountain
side and is soon deep in a great gloomy forest, not likely to raise his
spirits, but rather calculated to depress them still more.

Imagine then the elation when bursting at length from the depression of
the Forest of Gloom the traveller sees before him that transcendently
beautiful mountain, Mount Hope. Well may he hold his breath and gaze in
rapture, for before him rises the most beautiful mountain in all the
world and will ever be as long as life lasts. With its velvety slopes and
shaded dells, its little silver rills tinkling down the mountain side,
sounding like fairy laughter through the trees, the gently stirring air
freighted with the perfume of myriads of fragrant blossoms, and over all
a tender rose-colored glow reflected from the soft pinky clouds that
forever tenderly rest upon the mountain’s top, it is indeed the most
beautiful of nature’s jewels. So it seems, with Hope so long deferred,
to that tired-eyed struggler upon Love’s Highway, often heartsick and
oppressed by the vicissitudes of the way, for here he may rest and,
gazing again out over the dear Valley of Dreams, rejuvenate the Yearning,
the Ambition, and the Determination that have brought him through so much.

To these he may now add Hope, and so equipped and refreshed he dashes
a second time through the Forest of Gloom, and though confronted by
the most stubborn and rocky section (known as the Parent Peak) in the
entire range of the Mountains of Opposition, his past experience and
his added strength carry him over with little effort, and, coming down
the last steep slope, his heart gives a bound as his eye follows the
smooth roadway stretching invitingly across a nearly level expanse of
well-cultivated country thickly dotted with the happy homes of those
who had once been travellers like himself. If he be not short-sighted,
he is able to see even as far ahead as to where the road and his lonely
journey end in heavenly Mount Heart’s Desire. As he passes along many a
cheerful face smiles out at him from the doorways, and many a cheerful
word of welcome and greeting encourages him to hasten. The smiles of the
rosy-cheeked children seem especially sweet to him.

The journey’s end! The goal is reached! Naught remains further for the
traveller now except the Oath of Allegiance which is performed with
considerable ceremony in the little church just around the corner to the
left.

NOTE:—Mount Heart’s Desire is of an attractive shape and thickly
surrounded by orange blossoms. No two travellers agree as to its height,
but we are of the opinion that it _must_ be about five feet, three or
four inches. Within it is a little shrine called Trust, which it is the
duty of every worshipper to protect.

NOTE Y. It seems more than mere coincidence that the Path of Least
Resistance should run up Mount Curiosity on the side nearest to the
borders of the State of Indifference, and there is a very ancient
tradition that the first person to make the ascent came from that
easy-going country.

We believe this tradition to be another version of the Adam and Eve
story, and feel that it conclusively proves us right in our calculations
as to the exact location of the Garden of Eden. We claim it was situated
in that part of the State of Indifference near to and in full view of
Mount Curiosity, and that Adam was the first man to make the climb. We
also believe that Adam became lost on the mountainside and never returned
to Eden, and that the Path of True Love gives a pretty good idea of his
subsequent wanderings, of which so little heretofore has been known.

At any rate, vast numbers from the State of Indifference make the ascent
of Mount Curiosity every year, and many of our best citizens have come
from that state.

NOTE 23. At this point, after the more or less extended journey through
the unhealthy Forest of Misunderstanding, the traveller must have a
care, especially if he be of a sensitive nature, for the shock of the
first plunge through Bicker Brook will often throw one into a distemper
or fever. Some, going absolutely out of their heads, wander far afield.
Herein lies a grave danger because of the nearness of the road at this
point to the boundaries of Misanthropia, which state is little more than
a barren waste. The peculiar mental attitude of its inhabitants gives
strength to the theory advanced in Amoria that its population is made up
of those poor fever-ridden souls who have wandered from the Path of True
Love and gone quite mad.

NOTE 13. The higher one climbs the duller the thud. So with the traveller
who has been dreaming across sweet meadow land and balmy wastes when
suddenly confronted by a renewal of obstacles which his optimism had made
him believe passed forever, and it is in a nervous and uncertain state of
mind we find him groping his way through the mists that always fill Blue
Valley. Here is a great danger, for with the steep mountains on three
sides the traveller, if he once stumble from the road, is apt to follow
the depression of the valley until morbid and benumbed he wander into the
State of Indifference.

The same danger, in a lesser degree, is lurking in the Forest of Gloom.




_APPENDIX_


The Appendix has been removed.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Cupid's Cyclopedia, by 
Oliver Herford and John Cecil Clay

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CUPID'S CYCLOPEDIA ***

***** This file should be named 56269-0.txt or 56269-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/2/6/56269/

Produced by David Edwards and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

